# Honors-Thesis-Applying-Machine-Learning-To-Denoise-HoloOcean-Simulated-Sonar-Images
This is a project for Spencer Ashford's BYU Undergraduate Honors Thesis: Applying Machine Learning Methods to Denoise HoloOcean Simulated Profiling Sonar Images

## Premise
Sonar is an integral part of underwater robotics as it provides information in environments where vision is limited and many types of traditional sensors fail to give reliable results.  One of the downsides of sonar is that it tends to have noise or artifacts that reduce the clarity of the data.  BYU's HoloOcean underwater robotics simulator has sought to replicate this noise to give a more realistic depiction of sonar in its simulations.  This thesis seeks to use a deep learning model to demonstrate a solution to removing noise from the simulated sonar data generated by HoloOcean.

## Dataset:
The dataset consists of over 1000 image pairs generated from simulated sonar imagary using BYU's HoloOcean underwater robotics simulator.  Each image pair consists of a "noisy" and "noiseless" image, corresponding to a single profiling sonar output with simulated noise either added or not respectively.  These images were then converted into 512x90 numpy (.npy) files for convenient storage and usage.  The dimensions 512x90 correspond to the images generated in the simulation with 512 range bins and 90 azimuth bins that the simulation used to define its resolution.

## Training Script
The training script consists of a python notebook meant to work with Google Colab and make use of their hardware acceleration capabilities.  It should be possible to use other IDEs and to change the hardware accelerator as needed, though this will require individual adaptation.
